# BikeRentalCount
The objective of this Case is to Predication of bike rental count on daily based on the environmental and seasonal settings. The objective is to forecast bike rental demand of Bike sharing program in Washington, D.C based on historical usage patterns in relation with weather, environment and other data. We would be interested in predicting the rentals on various factors including season, temperature, weather and building a model that can successfully predict the number of rentals on relevant factors.

# Data
This dataset contains the seasonal and weekly count of rental bikes between years 2011 and 2012 in Capital bikeshare system with the corresponding temperature and humidity information. Bike sharing systems are a new way of traditional bike rentals. The wohle process from memberhsip to rental and retrun back has become automatic. The data was generated by 500 bike-sharing programs and was collected by the Laboratory of Artiﬁcial Intelligence and Decision Support (LIAAD), University of Porto. Given below is the description of the data which is a (731, 16) shaped data.

short description of features
instant: Record index
dteday: Date
season: Season (1:spring, 2:summer, 3:fall, 4:winter)
yr: Year (0: 2011, 1:2012)
mnth: Month (1 to 12)
holiday: weather day is holiday or not (extracted from Holiday Schedule)
weekday: Day of the week
workingday: If day is neither weekend nor holiday it's 1, otherwise is 0.
weathersit: (extracted from Freemeteo)
Clear, Few clouds, Partly cloudy, Partly cloudy
Mist + Cloudy, Mist + Broken clouds, Mist + Few clouds, Mist
Light Snow, Light Rain + Thunderstorm + Scattered clouds, Light Rain + Scattered clouds
Heavy Rain + Ice Pallets + Thunderstorm + Mist, Snow + Fog
temp: Normalized temperature in Celsius.
atemp: Normalized feeling temperature in Celsius.
hum: Normalized humidity. The values are divided to 100 (max)
windspeed: Normalized wind speed. The values are divided to 67 (max)
casual: count of casual users
registered: count of registered users
cnt: count of total rental bikes including both casual and registered

# Kaggle Kernel Version
Python:  https://www.kaggle.com/vi20027804/bike-rental-prediction-py

R: https://www.kaggle.com/vi20027804/bike-rental-prediction-r
